# Add a layer to a map or map proxy

Add a layer to a map or map proxy

## Usage

``` r
add_layer(
  map,
  id,
  type = "fill",
  source,
  paint = NULL,
  layout = NULL,
  popup_column = NULL,
  hover_column = NULL,
  can_cluster = FALSE,
  under_id = NULL,
  filter = NULL,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- map:

  The map object or map proxy to which the layer will be added

- id:

  A unique identifier for the layer

- type:

  The type of layer to add (e.g., "fill", "circle", "line"). Default is
  "fill"

- source:

  The data source for the layer, if not a GeoJSON, it will be converted

- paint:

  A list of paint options for styling the layer. See
  [`get_paint_options()`](https://epi-interactive-ltd.github.io/toro/reference/get_paint_options.md)
  for defaults and options

- layout:

  A list of layout options for the layer. See
  [`get_layout_options()`](https://epi-interactive-ltd.github.io/toro/reference/get_layout_options.md)
  for defaults and options

- popup_column:

  The column name to use for popups. Default is `NULL`

- hover_column:

  The column name to use for hover effects. Default is `NULL`

- can_cluster:

  Whether the layer can be clustered. Default is `FALSE`

- under_id:

  The ID of an layer already on the map to place this layer under.
  Default is `NULL`

- filter:

  A filter expression to apply to the layer. Default is `NULL`. See
  [`get_layer_filter()`](https://epi-interactive-ltd.github.io/toro/reference/get_layer_filter.md)
  for more details on how to create filter expressions

- ...:

  Additional arguments to include in the layer definition.

  - clusterOptions: A list of options for clustering, if `can_cluster`
    is `TRUE`. See the [cluster
    vignette](https://epi-interactive-ltd.github.io/toro/articles/layers.html)
    for details on available options

## Value

The updated map object with the new layer added

## Note

If `source` is not a string referring to an existing source, it will be
converted to a GeoJSON source and added to the map automatically. The Id
for the source is generated by appending the layer Id to `source-`. For
example, if you add a layer with `id = "my_layer"` and `source` is a sf
object, the source is added to the map with the ID `"source-my_layer"`

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Load libraries
library(toro)
library(spData)
library(sf)

nz_data <- spData::nz |>
  rename(geometry = geom) |>
  sf::st_transform(4326)

map() |>
 add_layer(
   id = "nz_regions",
   type = "fill",
   source = nz_data,
   hover_column = "Name"
 )
} # }
```
